# 01.professional summary

DGMX Tech
Tech Lead, Full-Stack and Software Engineer with Amazon Web Services| September 2024 – October 2025

- Strategic Architecture: Proposed and implemented a Domain Driven Design methodology, establishing new architectural standards for maintainability and scalability across the organization.
- Technical Leadership: Guided a Full Stack team using Scrum Methodology, owning technical decisions regarding architecture, implementation strategy, and feature delivery to ensure outcomes for the client.
- Stakeholder Management: Managed communication and technical expectations with the client, aligning team efforts to support the strategic goal of penetrating the Northern Mexico delivery app market.
- Talent Acquisition: Actively contributed to team growth conducting technical interviews and applying tests to candidates to maintain high engineering standards within DGMX.
- Software Engineer:
  - BackEnd: Engineered and deployed robust, scalable, and highly available solutions using AWS-CDK. Established an environment with different AWS as: VPC, ELB, ASG, Route 53, SQS, SNS, IAM, EC2, RDS, S3, and AWS-CLI.
  - Front-End/Mobile Development: Developed and maintained the intuitive customer interface and core application features on mobile, utilizing React Native (Expo). Ensured robust data consumption via APIs hosted on AWS environment.

Kokonut Company
Front-End Developer | March 2023 – July 2024

- Core Development: Architected and developed and maintained enterprise-level web applications with a primary focus on Angular. I also participated in development projects using React and Next.js. All applications featured complex API integrations.
- Agile: Successfully delivered features and projects using both Scrum and Waterfall methodologies, demonstrating adaptability to diverse project management requirements.
- Software Engineering Practices: Applied software engineering principles to the project lifecycle, including the creation of essential Use Case documentation for functional clarity and alignment.
- Stakeholder communication: Taken communication with stakeholders by delivering periodic sprint progress presentations, technical support, and proposing continuous project improvements.
- Specialized Skill: Engineered and implemented immersive 3D environments within web applications utilizing Three.js library. I complete this using the strict language TypeScript for ensuring the properties of objects in the scenarios.

NIKU
Software Engineer, Full-Stack with AWS, React Native, and UI/UX Designer | September 2021 – March 2023

- Back-End: Engineered and deployed solutions using AWS services to deliver robust and cloud-native infrastructure with TypeScript for the APIs.
- Mobile Application: Development mobile delivery application for the food and logistics, translating product requirements to features.
- Design & User Experience: Design and maintenance on UI/UX mockups for mobile applications, ensuring the usability for the users.
- Languages & Tooling: Used languages as JavaScript and TypeScript. Also managing NPM packages for development, Git for version control, and building RESTful API integrations.
